README.rst, before:

==========
 IgorUnit
==========

A unit test framework for `Igor Pro`_

General Design
==============

IgorUnit_ is an implementation of the xUnit_ test framework for the
`Igor Pro`_ data analysis language. IgorUnit_ generates valid Igor
code using a Python_\ -based toolkit. Tests are defined using a set of
simple macros to make writing tests easy. The templating engine Mako_
is used as a preprocessor to expand the macros.

This general design is similar to unit test libraries built for the C
language, such as Unity_ and Check_, which use preprocessor macros to
do the heavy lifting. Unity_ also provides Ruby-based automatic test
suite generation. Similarly, `IgorUnit`_ automatically generates test
suites and provides convenience functions to make those suites easy to
run.

See the docs directory for usage information.

Install
=======

IgorUnit_ development is tracked in a git_ repository. It has a
dependency on the igorutils_ package, which is included as a `git
submodule`_. To get a fully functional IgorUnit distribution::

 git clone git://github.com/yamad/igorunit.git
 git submodule init
 git submodule update

You will also need to ensure that a Python_ interpreter is available
and that the python package Mako_ is installed.

Dependencies
------------

 * Git_ (for obtaining the code)
 * `Igor Pro 6.2 <http://www.wavemetrics.com>`_ or higher
 * `Python 2.7 <http://www.python.org>`_ (Python 3 support is forthcoming)
 * Mako_ templating engine
 * appscript_ (for Mac OS X)
 * pywin32_ (for Windows)

.. _Mako: http://www.makotemplates.org
.. _Unity: http://throwtheswitch.org/white-papers/unity-intro.html
.. _Check: http://check.sourceforge.net
.. _`Igor Pro`: http://www.wavemetrics.com
.. _`IgorUnit`: http://github.com/yamad/igorunit
.. _`igorutils`: http://github.com/yamad/igorutils
.. _git: http://git-scm.com
.. _`git submodule`: http://schacon.github.com/git/git-submodule.html
.. _xUnit: http://www.junit.org
.. _Python: http://www.python.org
.. _appscript: http://appscript.sourceforge.net/py-appscript/index.html
.. _pywin32: http://sourceforge.net/projects/pywin32/

Commit message:

Remove igorutils submodule from igorunit repo
IgorUnit depends on igorutils, so I initially thought that it would be easiest
to distribute the igorutils from with IgorUnit. Howver, only one copy of a
procedure file is available to Igor at a time. In order for more than one
package to use igorutils, igorutils must be installed independently. The
igorutils copy inside of IgorUnit was hiding other, more recent versions of
igorutils so I am deleting it from IgorUnit. Note that IgorUnit still requires
igorutils!

README.rst, after:

==========
 IgorUnit
==========

A unit test framework for `Igor Pro`_

General Design
==============

IgorUnit_ is an implementation of the xUnit_ test framework for the
`Igor Pro`_ data analysis language. IgorUnit_ generates valid Igor
code using a Python_\ -based toolkit. Tests are defined using a set of
simple macros to make writing tests easy. The templating engine Mako_
is used as a preprocessor to expand the macros.

This general design is similar to unit test libraries built for the C
language, such as Unity_ and Check_, which use preprocessor macros to
do the heavy lifting. Unity_ also provides Ruby-based automatic test
suite generation. Similarly, `IgorUnit`_ automatically generates test
suites and provides convenience functions to make those suites easy to
run.

See the docs directory for usage information.

Install
=======

IgorUnit_ development is tracked in a git_ repository. It has a
dependency on the igorutils_ package, which must be on the Igor search
path for IgorUnit_ to work.

To install, download both the IgorUnit_ and igorutils_ packages and
place the folders in the User Procedures directory. See the "Shared
Procedure Files" and "Igor Pro User Files" help topics in the Igor
help system for more information on installing Igor packages.

You will also need to ensure that a Python_ interpreter is available
and that the python package Mako_ is installed.

Dependencies
------------

 * Git_ (for obtaining the code)
 * `Igor Pro 6.2 <http://www.wavemetrics.com>`_ or higher
 * igorutils_
 * `Python 2.7 <http://www.python.org>`_ (Python 3 support is forthcoming)
 * Mako_ templating engine
 * appscript_ (for Mac OS X)
 * pywin32_ (for Windows)

.. _Mako: http://www.makotemplates.org
.. _Unity: http://throwtheswitch.org/white-papers/unity-intro.html
.. _Check: http://check.sourceforge.net
.. _`Igor Pro`: http://www.wavemetrics.com
.. _`IgorUnit`: http://github.com/yamad/igorunit
.. _`igorutils`: http://github.com/yamad/igorutils
.. _git: http://git-scm.com
.. _`git submodule`: http://schacon.github.com/git/git-submodule.html
.. _xUnit: http://www.junit.org
.. _Python: http://www.python.org
.. _appscript: http://appscript.sourceforge.net/py-appscript/index.html
.. _pywin32: http://sourceforge.net/projects/pywin32/
